# SeniorDesignProject
## Audio-Based Indoor Navigation System for the Visually Impaired 
***

To most visually impaired members of society, one of the main barriers standing in their way to seamless day-to-day activities is the inability to navigate without assistance. Currently, the public’s solution to assisting the said community is by adapting visual signs to also incorporate Braille writing. However, this solution is indeed unreliable for indoor navigation due to the real issue lying behind how a member of the visually impaired society will reach the physical sign in the first place. Therefore, the proposed solution is an audio-based indoor navigation system which integrates localization, navigation, and speech recognition systems. If provided with more accessible navigation techniques within indoor environments, the visually impaired will be granted unassisted navigation which positively affects secure wayfinding, fast arrival to desired destinations, and smooth transitions to comfortable lifestyles. The proposed system aims to locate indoor positions with accuracy less than 3 meters via Hybrid PDR-Wifi localization, respond to the user’s request in less than 10 seconds, and process different or synonymous specified key terms given by the user via hybrid HMM-NN speech recognition models. Furthermore, the basic working principle behind the navigation system starts off by taking the user’s requested destination as audio, which is then transformed to text. In parallel, the system locates the user position to generate the most accessible route to the desired destination. Lastly, it returns audio instructions to the user via headphones.  
